Previously, you set up the training
data into two specific batches,
each batch containing no
duplicate questions within it.
You ran those batches
through one sub network each.
And that's produced a vector
of supports per question.
Which has dimension 1 by d_model,
where d_model is the embedding dimension.
And is equal to the number of columns
in the matrix, which is five,
at least in this example.
The v1 vectors for
a single batch are stuck together.
And in this case, the batch size is
the number of rows shown in this matrix,
which is four.
You can see a similar batch
of v2 vectors as well.
The last step was to combine the two
branches of the Siamese network.
By calculating the similarity
between all vector pair combinations
of the v1 vectors and v2 vectors.
For this example with a batch
size of four, that last step
would produce a matrix of similarities
that looks something like this.
This matrix has some important attributes.
The similarities along the green
diagonal contain similarities for
the duplicate questions.
For a well trained model, these values
should be greater than similarities for
the off-diagonals.
Reflecting the fact that the network
produces similar vector outputs for
duplicate questions.
The orange values in the upper right and
lower left are similarities for
the non duplicate questions.
Now this is where things
get really interesting.
You can use this off diagonal information
to make some modifications to the loss
function and
really improve your models performance.
To do so,
I'm going to make use of two concepts.
The first concept is the mean negative,
which is just the mean or
average of all the off-diagonal
values in each row.
Notice that off-diagonal elements
can still be positive numbers.
So when I say mean negative, I'm referring
to the mean of the similarity for
negative examples,
not the mean of negative numbers in a row.
For example,
the mean negative of the first row
is just the mean of all
the off-diagonal values in that row.
In this case, -0.8, 0.3 and -0.5,
excluding the value 0.9,
which is on the diagonal.
You can use the mean negative to help
speed up training by modifying the loss
function, which I'll show you soon.
The next concept is what's
called the closest negative.
As mentioned earlier, because of the way
you define the triplet loss function,
you'll need to choose so
called hard triplets to train on.
What this means is that for
training, you want to choose triplets
where the cosine similarity of
the negative example is close to
the similarity of the positive example.
This forces your model to learn what
differentiates these examples and
ultimately drive those similarity
values further apart through training.
To do this, you'll search each row in your
output matrix for the closest negative.
Which is to say the off diagonal
value which is closest to, but
still less than the value on
the on diagonal for that row.
So in this first row,
the value on the diagonal is 0.9.
So the closest off-diagonal
elements in this case is 0.3.
What this means is that this negative
example with a similarity of 0.3 has
the most to offer your model in
terms of learning opportunity.
To make use of these new concepts,
recall that the triplet loss was defined
as the max of the similarity of A and
N minus the similarity of A and
B plus the margin alpha and 0.
Also recall that we refer to
the difference between the two
similarities with the variable named diff.
Here, we're just writing
out the definition of diff.
So in order to minimize the loss you
want this diff plus the margin alpha
to be less than or equal to 0.
I'll introduce loss 1 to be the max
of the mean negative minus the similarity
of A and P plus alpha and 0.
The change between the formulas for
triplet loss and
loss 1 is the replacement
of similarity of A and N.
With the mean negative,
this helps the model converge faster
during training by reducing noise.
It reduces noise by training on just
the average of several observations,
rather than training the model on
each of these off-diagonal examples.
So why does taking the average of several
observations usually reduce noise?
Well, we define noise to be a small value
that comes from a distribution
that is centered around 0.
So in other words, the average of
several noise values is usually 0.
So if we took the average
of several examples,
this has the effect of cancelling out the
individual noise from those observations.
Then loss 2 will be the max
of the closest negative
minus the similarity of A and
B plus alpha and 0.
The difference between the formulas this
time is the replacement of the cosine
of A and N.
With the closest negative, this helps
create a slightly larger penalty by
diminishing the effects of the otherwise
more negative similarity of A and
N that it replaces.
You can think of the closest negative as
finding the negative example that results
in the smallest difference between
the two cosine similarities.
If you had that small difference to alpha,
then you're able to
generate the largest loss among all
of the other examples in that row.
By focusing the training on the examples
that produce higher loss values,
you make the model
update its weights more.
To learn from these more
difficult examples,
then you can define the full
loss as loss 1 + loss 2.
And you will use this new full loss as an
improved triplet loss in the assignments.
The overall costs for your Siamese
network will be the sum of these
individual losses over the training sets.
In the next video, you will use this
cost function in one shot learning.
One shot learning is a very effective
technique that can save you a lot of time
when comparing the authenticity of
checks or of any other type of inputs